Update alt text in the content (#301)
wpaccessibility/wp-a11y-docs: docs/topics/code/images/alt-text.md

---
title: Alt text images
layout: default
parent: Images
description: How to add alternative text for images, SVGs and icons in development.
nav_order: 2
---

# Alternative text for images, SVGs and icons in development

> When a user can not see an image and that image has meaning, adds information, that image needs an alternative in text. Screen readers will announce that alternative text, so visitors that can not see the image will also know what it shows and won’t miss information.

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to say "when a user cannot see an image"; I'd simplify the first sentence:

"When an image has meaning or adds information on a page, that image needs a text alternative."

Reviewer: I'd also change the second sentence: instead of "visitors that can not see the image", "visitors using assistive technology".

Author: added your suggested text

You may think that you’re not including any images in your project. Possibly this is true; but are you using [dashicons](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) or other icon fonts? Are you using SVG graphics? For accessibility, “images” doesn’t only refer to the `img` element. It means any non-text graphical elements on the page.

All of these images require accessibility considerations. The W3C offers a [useful decision tree to help you decide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decision-tree/) what kind of text you need for an image. If your image is conveying information or activating a control, it’s going to need some form of [accessible name]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/topics/code/accessible-name).

{: .info .callout }

> This page addresses the alternative text and accessible names for images in development. How to write a good alt text and add them in the content is addressed in the "Content and Images" section [Alternative text for images in the content]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/topics/content/alt-text/) of this documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page addresses the alternative text and accessible names for images in development. How to write good alt text and add them to content is addressed in the "Content and Images" section [Alternative text for images in the content]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/topics/content/alt-text/) of this documentation.
```

## Alternative text on an img

> Always add the img attribute to an img element. The alt attribute can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always add the `alt` attribute to an `img` element. The `alt` attribute can:
```

> - contain the alternative text, this will be announced by a screen reader

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- contain the alternative text that will be announced by a screen reader
```

> - be empty, the image will be omitted by a screen reader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- be empty, so the image will be omitted by a screen reader.
```

> When the alt attribute is not present, the screen reader will announce the **filename** instead. Blind users miss the information that is on the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the alt attribute is not present, a screen reader may announce the **filename** or other information instead. Blind users will miss information that is on the image.
```

{: .dont .callout }
**Don't**: Remove the `alt` attribute

```html
<!-- Do not copy,this is incorrect code -->
<img src="IMG_123.jpg">
```
Will be announced in VoiceOver as "IMG_123, image".

{: .do .callout }
Do: Add an `alt` attribute, describing the purpose of the image.

```html
<img src="IMG_123.jpg" alt="All T-shirts are on sale">
```
Will be announced in VoiceOver as "All T-shirts are on sale, image".

## Alternative text on an svg

{: .tip .callout }
**Tip**: Carie Fisher published extensive research on how to [create accessible SVGs](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/author/carie-fisher/).

For accessibility: add `role="img"` to an SVG that serves as an image. Then the element is recognized and announced as an image by screen readers.

> There are several ways to give an SVG an alt text (an accessible name). We name 3, all are valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to give an SVG an alt text (an accessible name). Here are three valid options:
```

</g>
</svg>

```html
<svg role="img">
    <title>WordPress logo</title>
    [...]
</svg>
```

> The content of `<title>` isn't displayed but browsers usually show the `<title>` as a tooltip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content of `<title>` isn't rendered as a graphi, but browsers usually show the `<title>` as a tooltip.
```

Reviewer: (I missed the 'c' at the end of "graphic")

Author: I don't understand what rendered as a graphic means, changed it into:

The content of `<title>` doesn't render as visual text, but browsers usually show the `<title>` as a tooltip.

> 3: Assign the accessible name to the content of `<title>` of the SVG, using `aria-labelledby`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3: Assign the accessible name to the content of `<title>` of the SVG, using `aria-labelledby` to explicitly connect the `svg` to its name:
```

</g>
</svg>

```html
<svg aria-labelledby="titleID" role="img">
    <title id="titleID">WordPress logo</title>
    [...]
</svg>
```
The value `aria-labelledby` points to the `id` of the `title`.

## Image or SVG in a link

> When adding an image inside a link, the alt text will be added to the link text. Make sure the link text still makes sense. Repeat text that is visible in the image, also in the link text. 

Reviewer: In the 2nd sentence, I would generally say to *avoid* repeating text that is visible both in the image and in the link text; but perhaps I'm not understanding what this sentence says?

Author: Ah, yes, I should explain that better, changed it into:

If an image of, for example, a logo also contains text, like a byline, make sure that text is also added to the link text. Then no information gets lost.

For example when you create a link to Instagram, showing only the icon.
```html
<a href="[some-url]">
    <img src="logo-insta.png" alt="Instagram">
</a>
```

"Instagram" will be the link text, the accessible name of the link, announced by a screen reader when the link gets focus. So, in this case don't add the word "Logo", even if it's a logo. Describe the link target.

### Special case: A link on the logo in the header

> The alt text on a logo in the header od a website needs more than just the target, also the fact that the image displays the logo of the website/company.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The alt text on a logo in the header of a website needs more than just the target, also the fact that the image displays the logo of the website/company.
```

> The alt text on a logo in the header od a website needs more than just the target, also the fact that the image displays the logo of the website/company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The alt text on a logo in the header of a website needs more information than just the link target. It must also show that the image displays the logo of the website/company.
```

For example:
```html
<a href="/">
    <img src="logo.png" alt="Company name logo, to the homepage">
</a>
```

Read the full explanation:

- [A link on a logo in the header, what should the alt-text be?](https://www.htmhell.dev/adventcalendar/2024/1/) by Rian Rietveld on HTMhell.
- [The accessible name of a link on a logo in the header, in Dutch](https://nldesignsystem.nl/blog/toegankelijke-naam-link-logo-header/) on NL Design System.

{: .alert .callout }

> **Please note**: In the EU, this way of adding an alt text to the logo in the header is required to pass WCAG 2.2 AA. In other parts of the world only adding the link target may be sufficient to pass an audit. Ask your local accessibility auditor for advice in this case.

Reviewer: I think this statement isn't quite accurate; the EU can't dictate what does or doesn't pass WCAG 2.2 AA, they can only dictate what interpretation of WCAG 2.2 AA will pass some *other* EU-specific regulation. This should name that regulation.

Author: To be honest, this is a topic of much discussion, this is how we officially pass 2.4.4 but the discussions are emotional and often. Not every accessibility auditor agrees with this.

I will change the text into: 

**Please note**: There are regional differences on how to interpret the WCAG success criterion [2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/#link-purpose-in-context) in this case. Please consult your accessibility expert on their opinion about what the accessible name of a link to home on a logo in the header should be.

## Icons

> Make sure screen readers users also know what's on the icon, if you use it in a meaningful way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure screen readers users also know what's shown in the icon, if you use it in a meaningful way.
```

This is particularly crucial if you’re using images to represent controls, like a hamburger menu icon, an arrow, or a plus or minus icon. These images are used to represent information.

For example, if you use a close button with an "X"-icon, make sure that button is announced by a screen reader as "Close".

### Examples for icons

{: .dont .callout }

> **Don't** Forget giving button with a menu icon an accessible name.

Reviewer: I don't think this is sufficiently clear; it says "with a menu icon", which could mean a button with a text link that also contains a menu icon, when this is actually only specific to a button that *only* contains an icon.

Author: Changed it into: **Don't** forget giving a button, containing only a menu icon, an accessible name.

```html
<!-- 
Do not copy,this is incorrect code.
This button has no accessible name and 
is announced just as "Button" by a screen reader. 
-->
<button>
    <span class="dashicons dashicons-menu"></span>
</button>
```

{: .do .callout }
**Do:** Provide an accessible name to the button.

Use an aria-label on the button, this will be the accessible name.
```html
<!-- This button is announced as "menu" by a screen reader. -->
<button aria-label="Menu">
    <span class="dashicons dashicons-menu"></span>
</button>
```

Add text, hidden from sight but announced by a screenreader using the [CSS class .screen-reader-text](/docs/topics/code/screen-reader-text/).
```html
<!-- This button is announced as "menu" by a screen reader. -->
<button>
    <span class="dashicons dashicons-menu"></span>
    <span class="screen-reader-text">Menu</span>
</button>
```

> Or, the best option: add visible text. Because not everyone understands an icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best option is to add visible text. An icon alone may not be universally understood.
```

```html
<!-- This button is announced as "menu" by a screen reader. -->
<button>
    <span class="dashicons dashicons-menu"></span>
    <span>Menu</span>
</button>
```

## Resources

### Related WCAG Success Criteria for alternative text for images

> By giving a meaningful image a proper alternative text, you meet WCAG success criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By giving meaningful images proper alternative text, you meet WCAG success criteria
```
